feat: add dev portal blogpost (#1015)
withastro/astro.build: src/content/blog/dev-portal.mdx

---
title: "The Astro Developer Portal"

> description: "Today, we’re launching the Astro Developer Portal. A platform, where theme authors and creators, can fully create, own and update their themes built for Astro."

Reviewer: Small suggestion. It could also maybe hint towards the theme catalogue?
```suggestion
description: "Today, we’re launching the Astro Developer Portal, a platform where theme authors and creators can create, own and update their themes built for Astro."
```

publishDate: "March 13, 2024"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/dev-portal/dev-portal.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/dev-portal/dev-portal.webp"
lang: "en"
---

import BlogContentImage from "/src/components/BlogContentImage.astro"
import BlogSummary from "/src/components/BlogSummary.astro"
import dashboard from "/src/content/blog/_images/dev-portal/dashboard.webp"

<BlogSummary>

> Today, we’re launching the Astro Developer Portal. A platform, where theme authors and creators, can fully create, own and update their themes built for Astro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, we’re launching the Astro Developer Portal, a platform where theme authors and creators can create, own and update their themes built for Astro.
```

Reviewer: duplicate

</BlogSummary>

At Astro, we're dedicated to crafting solutions that not only benefit our users but also address our internal challenges. One such solution is the new Developer Portal, the new and future home for all Astro developers. Our aim with the Developer Portal is to provide a centralised platform where theme creators, and eventually integration creators, can have full control over their creations. Another goal was to test drive Astro Studio and its capabilities and identify bugs early.

So, today, we’re launching the Astro Developer Portal. A platform, where theme authors and creators, can fully create, own and update their themes built for Astro.

> 

Reviewer: This seems to reiterate what the blog summary says. I feel this can probably be removed?

---
title: "The Astro Developer Portal"
description: "Today, we’re launching the Astro Developer Portal. A platform, where theme authors and creators, can fully create, own and update their themes built for Astro."
publishDate: "March 13, 2024"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/dev-portal/dev-portal.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/dev-portal/dev-portal.webp"
lang: "en"
---

import BlogContentImage from "/src/components/BlogContentImage.astro"
import BlogSummary from "/src/components/BlogSummary.astro"
import dashboard from "/src/content/blog/_images/dev-portal/dashboard.webp"

<BlogSummary>

> Today, we're launching [the Astro Developer Portal](https://portal.astro.build). A platform, where theme authors and creators, can fully create, own and update their themes built for Astro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, we're launching [the Astro Developer Portal](https://portal.astro.build), a platform where theme authors and creators can create, own and update their themes built for Astro.
```

</BlogSummary>

> At Astro, we're dedicated to crafting solutions that not only benefit our users but also address our internal challenges. One such solution is the new Developer Portal, the new and future home for all Astro developers. Our aim with the Developer Portal is to provide a centralised platform where theme creators, and eventually integration creators, can have full control over their creations. Another goal was to test drive Astro Studio, its capabilities, and identify bugs early.

Reviewer: Attempt to remove double use of `new`. I'm also uncertain about the last sentence.
```suggestion
At Astro, we're dedicated to crafting solutions that not only benefit our users but also address our internal challenges. One such solution is the new Developer Portal, which will serve as the future home for all Astro developers. Our aim with the Developer Portal is to provide a centralised platform where theme creators, and eventually integration creators, can have full control over their creations. Another goal was to test drive Astro Studio, its capabilities, and identify bugs early.
```

Today, we're taking the new Astro Developer Portal in use. A platform, where theme authors and creators, can fully create, own and update their themes built for Astro.

> 

Reviewer: This conveys the same information as the blog summary presented just above, so I feel this can be removed

Author: yeah! I 100% agree. I'm searching for a way to make the "official announcement" here and then linking to the actual platform.
Just linking the platform on the line below alone, feels a bit out of place

Check it out at [portal.astro.build](https://portal.astro.build).

<BlogContentImage src={dashboard} alt="" />

## Problems in our current setup

The old method of adding themes to the Astro catalog was a very time-consuming and inefficient process. Theme creators were required to fill out a form, which triggered a manual process for the Astro core team. Images and content had to be extracted from Discord messages, formatted, and integrated into our theme content collection catalog. Updating themes was equally cumbersome, requiring manual repository forks and PR submissions by theme authors.

You probably get that it's not the most ideal way of handling that, right?

## Solution

> Out of identifying those problems and challenges, we came up with a new idea. A digital portal where theme creators can upload, update, and manage their themes. A core member only has to step in once, to approve a new theme, but that also can be just a click of a button.

Reviewer: Changing tense
```suggestion
Out of identifying those problems and challenges, we came up with a new idea. A digital portal where theme creators can upload, update, and manage their themes. A core member only has to step in once, to approve a new theme, but that is now a simple click of a button.
```

---
title: "The Astro Developer Portal"
description: "Today, we’re launching the Astro Developer Portal, a platform where theme authors and creators can create, own and update their themes built for Astro."
publishDate: "March 13, 2024"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/dev-portal/dev-portal.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/dev-portal/dev-portal.webp"
lang: "en"
---

import BlogContentImage from "/src/components/BlogContentImage.astro"
import BlogSummary from "/src/components/BlogSummary.astro"
import dashboard from "/src/content/blog/_images/dev-portal/dashboard.webp"

<BlogSummary>

> Today, we're launching [the Astro Developer Portal](https://portal.astro.build), a platform where theme authors and creators can create, own and update their themes built for Astro.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, we're launching [the Astro Developer Portal](https://portal.astro.build), a platform where theme authors and creators can submit, manage, and promote their themes built for Astro.
```
So, they can't "create their themes" here -- this isn't a theme builder. They can upload/manage the stuff they build!

I did like the word "update" which got cut from this sentence, but I feel like that will be described in the whole process below. For here, the key thing is this is where they can *manage* it, and all that entails.

</BlogSummary>

> At Astro, we're dedicated to crafting solutions that not only benefit our users but also address our internal challenges. One such solution is the new Developer Portal, which will serve as the future home for all Astro developers. Our aim with the Developer Portal is to provide a centralised platform where theme creators, and eventually integration creators, can have full control over their creations. Another goal was to test drive Astro Studio, its capabilities, and identify bugs early.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At Astro, we're dedicated to crafting solutions that not only benefit our community that builds *with* Astro, but also those who build *for* Astro... all while addressing our own internal challenges building Astro itself. One such solution is the new Developer Portal, which will serve as the future home for all community Astro developers. Our aim with the Developer Portal is to provide a centralized platform where theme authors, and eventually integration builders, can have full control over managing their listings in Astro's official directories. Another goal of the portal was to test drive Astro Studio: to help define its capabilities, identify bugs early and provide feedback to our platform team.
```

> Today, we're taking the new Astro Developer Portal in use. A platform, where theme authors and creators, can fully create, own and update their themes built for Astro.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Check it out at [portal.astro.build](https://portal.astro.build).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, the new Astro Developer Portal goes live! Check it out at [portal.astro.build](https://portal.astro.build).
```
Just combined the two ideas.

<BlogContentImage src={dashboard} alt="" />

## Problems in our current setup

The old method of adding themes to the Astro catalog was a very time-consuming and inefficient process. Theme creators were required to fill out a form, which triggered a manual process for the Astro core team. Images and content had to be extracted from Discord messages, formatted, and integrated into our theme content collection catalog. Updating themes was equally cumbersome, requiring manual repository forks and PR submissions by theme authors.

> You probably get that it's not the most ideal way of handling that, right?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It was obviously not the most ideal way of handling that. If only we had some sort of Astro database-backed system . . . 
```

## Solution

> Out of identifying those problems and challenges, we came up with a new idea. A digital portal where theme creators can upload, update, and manage their themes. A core member only has to step in once, to approve a new theme, but that is now a simple click of a button. Using Astro Studio and Astro DB, we are able to handle the entire process using a web application, instead of requiring manual steps, such as creating PRs and managing content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After taking stock of our problems and challenges, listing all the pain points for theme authors and the Astro core team alike, we sketched out the system we wanted. What we came up with was a digital portal where theme creators can upload, update, and manage their themes. We envisioned something where a core member only had to step in once, to approve a new theme, and that is now just a simple click of a button. Using [Astro Studio](https://studio.astro.build) and [Astro DB](https://astro.build/db/), we would be able to handle the entire process using an Astro web application, eliminating the need for the existing manual steps like creating PRs and managing content ourselves.
```
I edited this entire section to make it the "what we were thinking of building" before the actual building part, so that the NEXT section is about building it with Studio/DB

> Out of identifying those problems and challenges, we came up with a new idea. A digital portal where theme creators can upload, update, and manage their themes. A core member only has to step in once, to approve a new theme, but that also can be just a click of a button. Using Astro Studio and Astro DB, we are able to handle the entire process using a web application, instead of requiring manual steps, such as creating PRs and managing content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Out of identifying those problems and challenges, we came up with a new idea. A digital portal where theme creators can upload, update, and manage their themes. A core member only has to step in once, to approve a new theme, but that is now a simple click of a button. Using Astro Studio and Astro DB, we are able to handle the entire process using a web application, instead of requiring manual steps, such as creating PRs and managing content.
```

## Dogfooding Astro Studio

> As we delved deeper into building the Developer Portal, we started dogfooding Astro Studio. What could be more powerful then using the tool you're building to build the tool you're building? It's a great way to identify bugs and issues early on, and to test the limits of the tool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What could be more powerful then using the tool you're building to build the tool you're building? It's a great way to identify bugs and issues early on, and to test the limits of the tool. Building with Astro Studio began in earnest.
```

> Initially, we encountered two significant challenges using Astro Studio: authentication and image storage. To address authentication, we integrated Supabase, leveraging its OAuth with GitHub for streamlined access. Yet, we realised the need for a unified solution that would leverage the power of Astro Studio and transitioned to [Lucia](https://lucia-auth.com/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In particular, we had two feature requirements shared by many of our own Astro users: authentication and image storage. There are several popular options available that work well with Astro projects, but this was the first chance to test drive them with Astro Studio.

To prototype authentication, we first built a proof-of-concept using Supabase, leveraging its OAuth with GitHub for streamlined access. Yet, we realized the benefit of a unified solution that would leverage the power of Astro Studio and transitioned to [Lucia](https://lucia-auth.com/). Whatever your own project's authentication needs are, we are confident you'll find an Astro Studio-compatible solution that works for you!
```

> For image storage, we set up a very simple cloud storage bucket with Google Cloud that will handle all storage and image processing without any manual intervention. Again, showcasing how powerful an Astro powered application and database can be.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For image storage, we set up a very simple cloud storage bucket with Google Cloud that will handle all storage and image processing without any manual intervention. This proved to be sufficient for our needs handling theme screenshots and thumbnails, and again showcases how powerful an Astro-powered application and database can be.
```

## What's next

Looking ahead, there's still much to be done to enhance the Developer Portal experience. Our focus remains on refining the platform and incorporating user feedback. While we have exciting ideas in the pipeline, our primary goal is to continue dogfooding Astro Studio to deliver the best possible experience for Astro developers using Astro Studio.

> Join us on this journey as we strive to make the theme creation and management process smoother and more enjoyable for all.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Join us on this journey as we strive to make the theme creation and management process smoother and more enjoyable for all, eventually extending to integrations and . . . who knows what else? The sky is the limit to what you can build *for* Astro!
```

---
title: "The Astro Developer Portal"

> description: "Today, we’re launching the Astro Developer Portal, a platform where theme authors and creators can create, own and update their themes built for Astro."

Reviewer 3: Comma nit
```suggestion
description: "Today, we’re launching the Astro Developer Portal, a platform where theme authors and creators can create, own, and update their themes built for Astro."
```

> description: "Today, we’re launching the Astro Developer Portal, a platform where theme authors and creators can create, own, and update their themes built for Astro."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "Today, we’re launching the Astro Developer Portal, a platform where theme authors can submit, manage, and promote their themes built for Astro."
```

publishDate: "March 13, 2024"
authors:
  - elian
coverImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/dev-portal/dev-portal.webp"
socialImage: "/src/content/blog/_images/dev-portal/dev-portal.webp"
lang: "en"
---

import BlogContentImage from "/src/components/BlogContentImage.astro"
import BlogSummary from "/src/components/BlogSummary.astro"
import dashboard from "/src/content/blog/_images/dev-portal/dashboard.webp"

<BlogSummary>

> Today, we're launching [the Astro Developer Portal](https://portal.astro.build), a platform where theme authors and creators can submit, manage, and promote their themes built for Astro.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Today, we're launching [the Astro Developer Portal](https://portal.astro.build), a platform where theme authors can submit, manage, and promote their themes built for Astro.
```

</BlogSummary>

> At Astro, we're dedicated to crafting solutions that not only benefit our community that builds *with* Astro, but also those who build *for* Astro... all while addressing our own internal challenges building Astro itself. One such solution is the new Developer Portal, which will serve as the future home for all community Astro developers. Our aim with the Developer Portal is to provide a centralized platform where theme authors, and eventually integration builders, can have full control over managing their listings in Astro's official directories. Another goal of the portal was to test drive Astro Studio: to help define its capabilities, identify bugs early and provide feedback to our platform team.

Reviewer 3: Comma nits
```suggestion
At Astro, we're dedicated to crafting solutions that not only benefit our community that builds *with* Astro but also those who build *for* Astro... all while addressing our own internal challenges building Astro itself. One such solution is the new Developer Portal, which will serve as the future home for all community Astro developers. Our aim with the Developer Portal is to provide a centralized platform where theme authors, and eventually integration builders, can have full control over managing their listings in Astro's official directories. Another goal of the portal was to test drive Astro Studio: to help define its capabilities, identify bugs early, and provide feedback to our platform team.
```

> At Astro, we're dedicated to crafting solutions that not only benefit our community that builds *with* Astro, but also those who build *for* Astro... all while addressing our own internal challenges building Astro itself. One such solution is the new Developer Portal, which will serve as the future home for all community Astro developers. Our aim with the Developer Portal is to provide a centralized platform where theme authors, and eventually integration builders, can have full control over managing their listings in Astro's official directories. Another goal of the portal was to test drive Astro Studio: to help define its capabilities, identify bugs early and provide feedback to our platform team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At Astro, we're dedicated to crafting solutions that not only benefit our community that builds *with* Astro, but also those who build *for* Astro... all while addressing our own internal challenges building Astro itself. One such solution is the new Developer Portal, which will serve as the future home for all community Astro developers.

Our aim with the Developer Portal is to provide a centralized platform where theme authors, and eventually integration builders, can have full control over managing their listings in Astro's official directories. Another goal of the portal was to test drive Astro Studio: to help define its capabilities, identify bugs early and provide feedback to our platform team.
```
Looks like a HUGE paragraph on the preview. Broke it up.

> At Astro, we're dedicated to crafting solutions that not only benefit our community that builds *with* Astro but also those who build *for* Astro... all while addressing our own internal challenges building Astro itself. One such solution is the new Developer Portal, which will serve as the future home for all community Astro developers. Our aim with the Developer Portal is to provide a centralized platform where theme authors, and eventually integration builders, can have full control over managing their listings in Astro's official directories. Another goal of the portal was to test drive Astro Studio: to help define its capabilities, identify bugs early, and provide feedback to our platform team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At Astro, we're dedicated to crafting solutions that not only benefit our community that builds *with* Astro but also those who build *for* Astro... all while addressing our own internal challenges building Astro itself. One such solution is the new Developer Portal, which will serve as the future home for all community Astro developers.

Our aim with the Developer Portal is to provide a centralized platform where theme authors, and eventually integration builders, can have full control over managing their listings in Astro's official directories. Another goal of the portal was to test drive Astro Studio: to help define its capabilities, identify bugs early, and provide feedback to our platform team.
```

Today, the new Astro Developer Portal goes live! Check it out at [portal.astro.build](https://portal.astro.build).

<BlogContentImage src={dashboard} alt="" />

> ## Problems in our current setup

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Problems with our past setup
```
We describe it in the past, so the heading should be in the past, too

It was obviously not the most ideal way of handling that. If only we had some sort of Astro database-backed system . . . 

## Solution

After taking stock of our problems and challenges, listing all the pain points for theme authors and the Astro core team alike, we sketched out the system we wanted. What we came up with was a digital portal where theme creators can upload, update, and manage their themes. We envisioned something where a core member only had to step in once, to approve a new theme, and that is now just a simple click of a button. Using [Astro Studio](https://studio.astro.build) and [Astro DB](https://astro.build/db/), we would be able to handle the entire process using an Astro web application, eliminating the need for the existing manual steps like creating PRs and managing content ourselves.

## Dogfooding Astro Studio

> What could be more powerful then using the tool you're building to build the tool you're building? It's a great way to identify bugs and issues early on, and to test the limits of the tool. Building with Astro Studio began in earnest.

Reviewer 3: Typo and comma nit
```suggestion
What could be more powerful than using the tool you're building to build the tool you're building? It's a great way to identify bugs and issues early on and to test the limits of the tool. Building with Astro Studio began in earnest.
```

In particular, we had two feature requirements shared by many of our own Astro users: authentication and image storage. There are several popular options available that work well with Astro projects, but this was the first chance to test drive them with Astro Studio.

To prototype authentication, we first built a proof-of-concept using Supabase, leveraging its OAuth with GitHub for streamlined access. Yet, we realized the benefit of a unified solution that would leverage the power of Astro Studio and transitioned to [Lucia](https://lucia-auth.com/). Whatever your own project's authentication needs are, we are confident you'll find an Astro Studio-compatible solution that works for you!

> For image storage, we set up a very simple cloud storage bucket with Google Cloud that will handle all storage and image processing without any manual intervention. This proved to be sufficient for our needs handling theme screenshots and thumbnails, and again showcases how powerful an Astro-powered application and database can be.

Reviewer 3: The sentences with multiples *and* can be a bit awkward to work with, I rewrote it a bit to try workaround this
```suggestion
For image storage, we set up a very simple cloud storage bucket with Google Cloud that will handle all storage and image processing without any manual intervention. This proved to be sufficient for our needs handling theme screenshots and thumbnails, again showcasing how powerful an Astro-powered application and database can be.
```

## What's next

Looking ahead, there's still much to be done to enhance the Developer Portal experience. Our focus remains on refining the platform and incorporating user feedback. While we have exciting ideas in the pipeline, our primary goal is to continue dogfooding Astro Studio to deliver the best possible experience for Astro developers using Astro Studio.

> Join us on this journey as we strive to make the theme creation and management process smoother and more enjoyable for all, eventually extending to integrations and . . . who knows what else? The sky is the limit to what you can build *for* Astro!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Join us on this journey as we strive to make the theme creation and management process smoother and more enjoyable for all, eventually extending to integrations and . . . who knows what else? The sky is the limit to what you can build with, and *for*, Astro!
```
